Now we'll use the Google Maps platform, the Google Maps API for that and the important part here is that
you unfortunately need a credit card to use that.
With that, you get $200 of free usage, at the moment at least and that will very likely stay
around, you get that for all these APIs we're about to use and that's so much that you won't pay anything
for the things we do in this course.
So the usage will be free for the things we do
but you need that credit card
unfortunately, there is no way around that when using the Google Maps API.
So once you set up your Google account with a credit card in there and you enable billing, you should
be able to get started and I'll start there with maps because I want to generate a static map
as it's called, such an image snapshot of a map and click get started there
and now the first step is to pick the products you want to use and that will be maps
but it also will be places, which helps us with later converting our coordinates to a human readable
address,
we don't need routes because we won't add any navigation here. Continue announced like the project
and here you can create a new project if you want to,
alternatively you could also pick your Firebase project used earlier because Firebase belongs to Google,
so you can use that project as well,
I'll turn a new project here though, add this and now this enables the Google Maps platform for
this project,
again billing account and credit card is required and once this is done, you're asked whether you want to
use your current account with which you logged in for the billing and I'll use that, click next here
and this enables the Google Maps platform now for this account
and once this is done, you're presented with an API key here. You can simply copy that API key because
you'll need that to make your requests
and now here, I actually want to create a new helper file which I'll name location_helper
which should then be responsible for making all these requests to Google APIs. So in there,
I'll store a const, a global const, not in a class but a const like this which I'll name
GOOGLE_API_KEY and that's just the API key that was generated for me here
and now I'll add a class, the location helper class
and again, this will have a couple of static methods which we can use without instantiating that class
from outside of this file
later. Now in there, I want to have a method, a static method which returns a string which I'll call
generate location preview image
and of course you can also pick a different name if you find this one a little bit too long.
Now in there, I want to get two arguments and I'll turn them into named arguments by wrapping them in
curly braces,
one is the latitude which is a double and the other is the longitude which is a double,
so that coordinate pair which either allows us to identify any place on the world.
Now here, I now want to return a URL to such an image which is dynamically generated by Google
based on that pair of coordinates and that's really easy to do.
You can search for Google Maps static API to find the official docs for this API
and there, you can learn more about this feature
but in the end, it's this URL what you want to use to build such a static snapshot image of your
selected place. So you can just copy in this string here between quotes and now of course adjust it
a little bit. For one here, center
here is an address, for us, it should actually be a pair of latitude and longitude but that's no problem,
you can simply replace that Brooklyn Bridge part here,
so everything between the center equals sign and the ampersand, you can replace that with a latitude and
longitude pair, so you simply enter, with string interpolation, latitude here and then a comma and then
longitude using the latitude and longitude we're getting here,
then have that ampersand thereafter to go back to the normal string.
Zoom is how far you want to be zoomed in,
maybe you zoom 16, you can play around with these values. The size you want to use,
so the size which you want to generate and I'll leave that size but you can also change this,
that's width times height. The map type you want to have, route type is that
default Google map you're used to, so I'll
keep that and then here, you could add markers.
I want to add one marker indeed, so I'll actually remove this line here though because I don't need that
many markers,
I want to have one marker and bring that in the same line so that we have no line breaks in there,
so we have Ampersand markers color red where you can change the color of the marker and then here,
our latitude again with string interpolation and our longitude,
so again entering these coordinates here where this marker should be placed.
Now this here also needs to be added to that first line, so that we have in the line breaks here and
that's our API key and therefore this is this Google API key constant I set up, again added with string interpolation.
So that's the finished URL and I just returned this URL here in this method and this
URL will give us an image of the map location we chose on the fly.
So now we can work with that here in location input, in our location input widget when we have get current
location and we have that location data here,
well now we just want to import our helper from the helpers folder, the location_helper.dart file and
then here, simply call locationHelper.generateLocationPreviewImage and pass in locData.latitude
and locData.longitude, that's the data
this method requires and I use the named arguments in there so we should assign this as named arguments
of course to the longitude and a latitude named arguments and we get back that URL so that preview
URL or that static map imageUrl if you want to be very precise and that's now what
I want to store here in this property, of course with set state so that this widget is rebuilt and
we actually see that change when we actually do render that image.
So inside of set state, I'll now set my preview imageUrl equal to that static map imageUrl
we're generating here. And with that, if we save that and do a restart, we should be able to select
our current location, again as simulated by the emulator here and see a preview.
So let me click current location and here is a preview as you can tell,
as I said, the default location is here on Googleplex. Now one side note here, on the Android emulator if
you click these three dots, you can also adjust settings and there, you can also adjust the location where
you're at,
here you can edit these coordinates if you want to test this with a different location than this one
and also one tiny thing. The label for that marker by default here is c, you can of course change
this
and this should be one character but I'll simply change this to a now because it is the only
location we basically have,
so if you click current location again, you now have a in there.
So this is now working,
now it would of course be nice if we could as an alternative then also select a place on the map.
So that's the next thing we'll work on.